I took a lot of inspirations for this piece, for the gameplay I was inspired by lifeline, a series of mobile games where the player is contacted by a person lost in a difficult place, like space or a desert, under the ocean or in avalanche. The player’s goal in those games is to guide the lost person back to safety via texting them instructions/ recommendations. The player gets choices for what they can text the lost soul and act their last life line hence the name. For my project I chose the same choice based texting system as I did not want to overcomplicate things by allowing for free writing.
Upon first reading the essay the first thing that came to mind was the targeting of children.
Thinking of children lead me to think of vulnerable audiences in general on the internet
I remembered the Momo challenge, an internet rumour of a chat box that targets children teens and young adults, manipulatively encouraging them to self harm and ultimately to take their own lives, I first heard of the Momo challenge under a different name, last year it was very big in the middle east under the name of “the blue whale” I reference that by changing the background to a blue whale at a certain point. 
Upon researching the Momo challenge I found out that the image used for the avatar was that of a sculpture made by a Japanese artist. When thinking about it, I remembered that japan has one of the highest suicide rates. I use the word Jisatsu, the Japanese word for suicide, it plays in the background, starts as a faint whisper and gradually increases in volume.

My goal with this project was not to offend or trigger, at a certain point I let the whole thing go mad in order to disturb an adult viewer, this experience is meant for adults. As adults would understand that this type of content is something to shield the more vulnerable people from. 
I did not want to develop upon it any further as I do not intended for this to be used in any way past being educational making adults realize that the internet can be dangerous and maybe help them protect people they care about from such lurking threats. 

Another thing I felt needed to be implemented was a warning about the risk of challenges, while I do include a photo of “Momo” in the piece, I thought a more commonly known challenge is the five finger fillet, also known as the knife challenge. A very dangerous challenge which surfaced on the internet a while back and had kids and teenagers stabbing at their hands to the tune of a song suggesting getting drunk and handling a knife. While I do not think the creator of the song was responsible for the idiocy of the people taking that challenge I think for the less mature or the more vulnerable of us, the idea of challenges is a very dangerous one as it enforces a reckless attitude. I felt like including this in a piece intended to be informative about the potential dangers of the internet was a good decision.

Overall I am proud of this piece and I feel it turned out fine for what I intended for it to be. I would like to dabble more into responsive chat boxes in the future but it will definitely not be for an evil entity enforcing self harm. 
